= Whmcs API

Ruby library for the WHMCS API ({API Reference}[http://docs.whmcs.com/API]).

== Instalation

WHMCS API library requires Ruby 1.9.3 or later. To install, add this line to your
+Gemfile+ and run <tt>bundle install</tt>:

  gem 'whmcs_api', require: 'whmcs'

You need use <tt>require: 'whmcs'</tt> parameter to automatically include the library. It's need, becouse
the gem and the library have different names.


== Configuration

By default module uses configuration from <tt>config/whmcs.yml</tt> file. To generate it run:

  rake whmcs:install

This command generates file <tt>config/whmcs.yml</tt> which contains configuration for each environment

  default: &default
    api_user: xxxxxxxxx
    api_password: xxxxxxxxx
    api_url: https://your.domain.com/includes/api.php
    http_auth_user: xxx
    http_auth_password: xxx

  production:
    <<: *default

  development:
    <<: *default

  test:
    <<: *default

Fill in +api_user+, +api_password+ and +api_url+ for each environment or use +default+ template. If your
WHMCS installation uses Basic HTTP Auth, use +http_auth_user+ and +http_auth_password+ options.

You can configure module at runtime if you need:

  Whmcs.configure do |config|
    config.api_user = 'xxxxx'
    config.api_password = 'xxxxxx'
    config.api_url = 'https://your.domain.com/includes/api.php'
  end

or set each configuration option separately:

  Whmcs.config.api_user = 'xxxxxx'

== Usage

To use library you need to create an instance of Whmcs::Api class and call it methods:

  @api = Whmcs::Api.new
  @api.execute_command(:getclientsdetails, clientid: 2803)

Last line returns a result hash:
  {:result=>"success", 
    :userid=>"2803", 
    :id=>"2803", 
    :firstname=>"Bogdan", 
    :lastname=>"Guban", 
    :fullname=>"Bogdan Guban"
    ...

or +false+ if an error was occurred. All error messages stores in an +errors+ method.
+errors+ method is a functionality of <tt>ActiveModel::Validations</tt> module.

  @api.errors.messages

returns:

  {:base=>["Client Not Found"]}

If you prefer to work with exceptions you can use functions with <tt>!</tt> suffix. For example:

  begin
    @api = Whmcs::Api.new
    @api.execute_command!(:getclientsdetails, clientid: 10000)
  rescue Exception => e
    puts e.message  # => Client Not Found
  end


====== TODO

- Write tests
- Write documentation
